Hey! I’m Lindsay.
I make a lot of garlic butter tomato sauce and put it on mostly everything.
What else do you wanna know?
It’s funny how this works, isn’t it? The week I made this tomato sauce for the first (and second) (and third) time, I had at least 500 neighbors and friends and relatives reach out to me and ask if I wanted some of their overflow garden tomatoes, knowing completely nothing of my new tomato sauce obsession.  A little braggy of them, if you ask me, but yes, I would like your tomatoes. I may not be much good at growing my own, but I can rock the homemade garlic butter tomato sauce game.
And speaking of. Is it really tomato sauce or more of a luscious one-pan-magic type of situation? These are the important questions in my life.
How to make our Tomato Butter Sauce (1 MIN):







A week or so ago I made this garlic butter tomato sauce on my Instagram stories and a) LOVED your responses, and b) got asked this question: can you remove the skins and seeds?
This brings us to a very important fork in the road: if you are not big on skins and seeds, it’s time to swipe left.
I’m not saying it to be mean. I’m just saying that the entirety of the sauce is made from cherry tomatoes, which are made up of 95% skins and seeds, so if you were to take all of that out, there wouldn’t be much sauce left. Blessings for your journey, seed-hating friends. We will see you next time.
Meanwhile, those of us who fall more into the Humans Who Like Eating All The Things category will carry on with skins (blistered, just a little bit, because we fancy) and seeds in our “sauce” which, as we’ve established, is not really sauce.
Chutney? Spread? What exactly do we call something of this velvety texture?

As with most of my favorite recipes, this one is very forgiving and adaptable. So if you truly want this to be a garlic butter tomato sauce for your pasta, girl, get after it. Just use some broth or water (or this is just coming to me right now – RED WINE?) to spread it even further.
On the flip side, if you adore eggs on toast or roasted potatoes or grilled chicken or similar, and you like a little sumthin to thwap on top (think Magic Green Sauce style)? SWIPE RIGHT and let’s match. Is that what people say? I’m acting like I know dating apps right now.
Just…what I’m trying to say is you want this one. Exactly as written. It is thick, chunky, just a little tangy – hello there, balsamic – and packed with flavor thanks to some spicy garlic and a knob of butter to finish.
Bonus thing that deserves mention: everything tomato sauce + breakfast sandwich combo is not to be messed with.







 
Basic Garlic Butter Tomato Sauce



★★★★★
4.8 from 15 reviews




Author: Lindsay
Yield: 1 cup sauce





Print Recipe 
 Pin Recipe



Ingredients

2-ish cups cherry tomatoes
1 tablespoon olive oil
2 cloves garlic, minced
2 tablespoons balsamic vinegar
1 tablespoon butter
salt to taste




Instructions

Place the tomatoes in a nonstick skillet over medium high heat with NO OIL IN THE PAN. We are trying to blister the outsides of the skins a little bit here.
Once the skins get a little blistered and the tomatoes are looking soft, turn the heat down to avoid lots of splatter, and add the olive oil and garlic. Be careful not to brown the garlic.
Press the tomatoes gently with the back of a wooden spoon so they break open and release their juices. Add the balsamic and let the whole mixture reduce until it’s thickened a bit, maybe 5-10 minutes.
Finish with the knob of butter and season with salt to taste.



Notes
If you want a thinner sauce to go on pasta, add 1/2 cup or so of water just after adding the balsamic and just let it cook down a bit.
Fresh basil would be a good decision.






783.2 g6.2 mg6.5 g4.8 g0.8 g7.6 mg 



Did you make this recipe?
Tag @pinchofyum on Instagram and hashtag it #pinchofyum


Recipe Card powered by 

This is how I make hummus. HOW TO MAKE OUR…
This? This gooey golden marshmallow melted chocolate butter graham goodness?…
This post is sponsored by Bai5 – in case you…
Roasted Tomatillo Chicken and Rice Bowls! I’ve been waiting for…
Hey summer! and hey hey heyyy beautifully delicious summer food eaten on a patio in the sunny sun. Welcome. Stay in our lives forever. We ❤ u. Especially us lonely winterers here in Minnesota who have not seen the out of doors for billions of days. Yesterday it was blisteringly hot out there (meaning 80 degrees here in M-N) and I was in summer sun patio heaven. I positioned my chair to face directly into the sun, right next to my newly purchased basil plant from the farmer's market, and together we soaked up the hottness while I ate a…
Ohhh-kay. This is one of my favorite breakfast recipes, ever…
Today’s post is sponsored by LAND O LAKES®! I’m super…
LUSHHHH! ♡ You guys, I’m so glad you’re here today…
This is the apron that my husband wore last night.…
How do you guys feel about fish? You like it. I knew it. Better question: how do you feel about Lost? As in the TV show Lost that came out 8 years ago that I just started watching last week, in 2013. I've always said I didn't want to watch it because of the plane crash. I get weird about plane crashes. The real ones, the in-my-mind ones, the Hollywood ones, all of em. Like every time I'm in airplane, I think about that scene with Tom Hanks in Castaway that I watched in middle school. Where the plane crashes.…
Is it just me, or is it a Maple Glazed…
Okay, I really do have recipes going on in my…
Um. I love pork. More specifically, I love carnitas. Vegetarianism is…
Hey girls, remember that one time when we went to…
This recipe is sponsored by Land O’Lakes I know. You might need a minute. I get it. Just breathe it in... breathe in that sage, garlic, butter, pumpkin-gnocchi-pillow combo. It is honestly too good to be legal. Are we breaking the law here? Because it feels suspiciously like we might be breaking the law. Here in Minnesota we're in that season now where fall is fully upon us and we're starting to get days that require our Fall Selves to show up. Full force. Wearing sweaters. Swapping iced coffees for hot ones. Raking leaves out of our yards (I have done…
Hi there! Bjork here checking in for Pinch of Yum’s…
Remember orange rolls? I’m talking about the ones you can…
Oh. Me. Oh. My. This just in: guess what I’ve…
This recipe is sponsored by Almond Breeze. I know it’s technically…
Hiya! Bjork here. I'm checking in for the monthly Pinch of Yum income report. Just over a year ago Lindsay and I decided to start tracking the income that came from this blog. Our hope is that these posts are inspirational and educational. Inspirational in that you can see that's it's possible to create an income from a food blog (not always easy, but possible). Educational in that you can see exactly how we're doing it. Here are the numbers for September: The Breakdown: BlogHer - $1,489.54 Freelance Food Photography - $1,200 Bluehost - $910 Tasty Food Photography - $700.5…